---
layout: posts
title: "Semester 2: Week 2- Library as Text, Place and Tool/ Archives in Context and as Context"
date: 2022-05-04 14:02:57 -0400
categories: Blog Posts
---

Editor, Author, and Archivist, Kate Theimer, spoke on her experience as an "outsider" working in the field of Digital Humanities. She equated it to "being a traveller in a foreign land with no dependable guidebooks." As a student enrolling in a digital humanities class with no prior knowledge of the humanities, I could completely identify with her situation. Theimer stated that she quickly learned that the general populace and archivists have different ideas about what archives are. She also stated that the name "archive" no longer refers to the field of literature and that archivists are now accustomed to the reality that this evidence has been taken by digital technologists.

Theimer also explores how Digital Humanities Scholars have changed the meanings and contexts of key terminology to fit their discipline. Theimer begins by outlining the essential concepts that distinguish conventional archives from collections generated by digital humanists. She discusses the notion of provenance, which reminded me of the problem that modern internet archivists face when dealing with unilaterally produced digital items. So, how can they validate products and prevent the mixing of records from multiple sources? She then discusses the final two elements of the initial order and communal control. However, after explaining all of this, Theimer stated unequivocally that digital humanists' use of the word archive is still genuine and valid, which is not regarded as a paradox in the community of archivists. This comment completely resonated with me since, while archivists deal with archives, they have no influence over how participants of other scholarly fields use the term "archives." Theimer argued that the meaning of the term "archives" used by digital humanists is more "particular," and hence has a broader meaning and reach. This is due to the fact that their definition fully comprehends the significance of archiving in the maintenance of vital information or materials. To summarise, Theimer believes that neither meaning of the phrase is correct or incorrect. Instead, she argues that by widening the concept of archives, there is a risk of losing respect for the special function that archives play, with which I concur.

Dr Schuyler Esprit describes her path in creating Create Caribbean and her enthusiasm for learning more about archives and reading patterns in the Caribbean, particularly Dominica, in the article "Topography, Topology, Typography: The Library as Place, Text, and Tool in Caribbean Digital Research Classrooms." She has shared specific aspects of her journey and the production of her book in our classroom sessions. Reading about Dr.Esprits' efforts at Create Caribbean prompted me to reminisce on my own time at the institution. At the beginning of my Digital Humanities course and internship at Create Caribbean, I knew very little about the topic and lost. However, I quickly became acquainted with Digital Humanities through sessions with Dr Esprit and various online tools such as Zotero and Voyant. This platform reminds us about our unique cultural identities, which is especially important considering the excessive use of social networking, which has significantly reduced engagement in the traditions.
