---
layout: posts
title: "Semester 1: Week 4- Data mining and Data Curation?"
date: 2022-05-04 14:02:57 -0400
categories: Blog Posts
---


Individuals who use digital technology to investigate humanities topics are known as digital humanists. They, on the other hand, have a bigger requirement for data management. To help manage their data, they may use spreadsheets, photos, and videos, as well as Metadata, which is formatted data that supports, explains, locates, or otherwise makes it a lot easier to retrieve, use, or organize a source of information. There are various sorts of data in humanities, however, what exactly is data in the humanities? Data can be expressed in a variety of formats and on a variety of platforms. Digital data, for example, is discrete and is typically portrayed in the format of a binary code containing two characters: 0 and 1. Data curation is essentially the preparation, collection, organisation, and maintenance of datasets. A dataset is a systematically ordered collection of data on a certain body of research or field. Datasets can be listed and can be statistical subjective pictorial images and audio, or a combination of the three. An example of a dataset would be my class schedule on my school’s student information system (SIS), Orbund. Dr Esprit demonstrated the dataset gathered for one of the digital humanities projects Cariseland, which was produced in partnership with prior interns, during class. This itemised information dataset, which was developed and completed in an excel spreadsheet, contains the data and metadata required to develop the project. This was also an instance of how data management and datasets facilitate data retrieval, as the data could not have been accessed during class if it had not been coordinated. Compiling datasets such as these and larger ones, on the other hand, takes a significant amount of time, labour, and capital. Nevertheless, digital modernists and organisations realise the importance of these data sources in ensuring open access to information for the general public and allowing other humanists to exploit these records in their endeavours.

In her article "How did they make that?" Miriam Posner's goal was to highlight several prominent digital humanities initiatives that would better assist newcomers in recognising and comprehending the many tools and techniques available. However, as Posner would have pointed out in "Humanities Data: A Necessary Contradiction," few humanists regard their source material to be data. She emphasizes that humanists approach data differently than researchers and social scientists since their approaches to it are so varied. Digital and traditional humanists both engage themselves so deeply in their research data in order to produce ingenious interpretations that repeatable work is almost non-existent. The findings of researchers such as Christof Schöch in "Big? Smart? Messy?" Trevor Muoz's "Data in the Humanities" and "Data Curation as Publishing for the Digital Humanities" offer an easy manner of understanding the notions of data in the humanities and data selection. Schöch introduces the concept of data in the arts something which is not always evident but it is nevertheless present, as in any other field of research. He provides numerous appropriate methodology of data, from which the overall idea that it is a computer representation of objects of humanities research can be formed.
Overall, data extraction and data management are crucial because they assist humanists to enhance their writing as well as their logical and exploratory skills. Furthermore, data curation and mining fine-tune any papers generated by humanists and develop distinct noteworthy publications.
