---
layout: posts
title: "Semester 1: Week 9- What is Digital History?"
date: 2022-05-04 14:02:57 -0400
categories: Blog Posts
---

William G. Thomas III, defines digital history as a method of investigating and representing the past that employs new communication technologies such as the computer, the internet network, and software systems. On many levels, digital history differs from traditional history. On the one hand, it is an accessible field of intellectual production and interaction, involving the creation of new course materials as well as scholarly data collection operations. On yet another level, digital history is a scientific approach that uses technology's hypertextual power to create, identify, query, and analyze relationships in the human archive of the past. Collaboration is also an important aspect of digital history initiatives. Williams provided evidence of a conceivable manner digital humanists cooperate or establish partnerships with library services to create models, preserve, and make scholarship study from digital humanities and explanatory records accessible to the general public in one previous reading, "What We Think We Will Build and What We Build in Digital Humanities."

To study digital history, one has to construct a framework using technology that allows people to experience, read, and comprehend an argument about an important historical issue. Readers in Digital History are not provided with an exhibition, an essay with numerous attachments, or any other analogue form that has merely been reformatted into an internet version. Instead, the readers are supplied with a set of analytical elements and approaches to the subject under inquiry.

Throughout the early stages of the field's popularisation, many researchers struggled to discern between digitization efforts and digital history scholarship. Today, though, a significant distinction may be made. Digitization is becoming more common even outside academia, and it entails making resources usable in digital form. Digital history projects, on the contrary, curate a more focused collection of information and resources around a specific historiographical issue. Because of the volume and scale of the materials, historians would use methods and technologies which were not yet part of their discipline to construct their own web-based systems while also using tools built by others.

A digital history initiative is the "Mapping Marrongae" project, which was recently explored. This research sought to investigate the various ways slaves sought to liberate themselves by routing the motions and correspondences depicted in various works of art. As a result, materials such as writings and biographies have been gathered to address this key research subject. These researchers also made these records accessible in digital form, whether by OCR (optical character reader), scanned images (PDF) or by encoding the text information with the text encoding initiative (TEI).

The technological process has evolved so much over the last years that the article's discussion on the future of online history has become a reality. As people learn more about what heritage looks like in online technology, the development and development of online history has now become increasingly essential and relative. Digital preservation and full access are two broad aspects of digital humanities which would guarantee that humanists have access to publications without having to spend for them, and all these resources could be turned into a digitalisation project to make this historical knowledge accessible to the public in the years ahead.
