---
layout: posts
title: "Semester 2: Week 7- Digital Humanities and Ethical Storytelling"
date: 2022-05-04 14:02:57 -0400
categories: Blog Posts
---

Christina Boyles discusses her travel to Puerto Rico, where she interviewed people with residents who agreed to share their tales regarding Hurricane Maria, in "Making and Breaking: Teaching Information Ethics through Curatorial Practice." She describes how she recruited people from various demographic groupings, including those from various geographic areas, ages, academic abilities, and socioeconomic circumstances. She did this in order to record as wide a range of experiences as possible.

She draws attention to how different this is from curation, which is an intrinsically bad process. She goes on to say, "No matter how many interviews I conducted, I knew I couldn't adequately depict the stress and sorrow inflicted by the disaster. I was also aware that the narratives emphasised in my research had the potential to affect people's opinion of the hurricane's aftermath, for better or worse. "Memory work is a tool for political freedom," writes Michelle Caswell, "but it is also a tool for social subjugation" [Caswell 2014]. - Boyles, Christina (2018).

As time passes, government institutions such as Customs and Border Protection seek to erase documents pertaining to immigrant abuse, rendering information unreachable to the public. This significantly alters the definition of what constitutes public knowledge. In many respects, public memory is analogous to an algorithm that promotes biassed narratives through an opaque judgement process. Students must be taught about the mechanisms that support computer systems, but this can only occur if individuals ensure that students have the information literacy abilities to examine, critique, and respond to societal myths and injustices. This can be accomplished by educating children about the procedures involved in the creation of archives, databases, and online databases.

 “As Moya Bailey aptly observes, “marginalized groups have often used media production to challenge dominant scripts within mainstream outlets, and the rise of digital platforms makes this task even easier” [Bailey 2015]. Scholars must comprehend the difficult and troubling foundations of archives if they are to grasp the technical, historical, and cultural relevance of digital archives. As a result, it is critical to develop socially just ways of archiving and meaning-making. "Making and breaking" are two techniques that do so. These techniques are based on two important digital humanities methods and educate children on how to conduct socially conscious interrogations of the "archives of humanity." When students exercise curation, collection, and publication skills, they have the chance to analyse and interact with data systems via their own collection building procedures. She describes in detail the remarkable work of black trans women on Twitter who partake in a curation process which also works to better the lives of those participating in order to make their neighbourhood, as well as the general public, more educated about trans individuals' personal experiences. This also demonstrates the kinds of decisions that archivists and systems engineering make on a daily basis.

Through the careful selection, arrangement, and display of information, students study subjects such as ethnicity, gender, sexuality, disability, and socioeconomic status. This encourages students to participate in the creating and breaking of knowledge, which may be used to investigate the "archives of humanity" and construct pedagogy anchored in critical theory and social equity.
